'\" t
.\" This file is part of libsmack
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" version 2.1 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH "CHSMACK" "8" "03/05/2012" "smack-utils 1\&.0"

.SH NAME

chsmack \- Change or list the Smack properties of filesystem objects

.SH SYNOPSIS 

.B chsmack [-L] [-r] [--] files...

.B chsmack [-L] [-r] props... [--] files...

chsmack -d [-L] [-r] [props]... [--] files...

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBchsmack\fR can be used to query or change the Smack context of a file.

First form is used to query the Smack properties of the files.

Second form is used to set and reset some Smack properties to the files.

Third form is used to remove all or some of the Smack properties of the
listed files.
\fBThis third form is now obsolete, use second form instead.\fR

Depending on the state and type of the file the different labels,
which are stored as extended attributes, have a different effect.
The \fIaccess\fR property is always significant. 
It is used to control how process access the file.  
The \fImmap\fR property is significant on filesystem object that can be mapped.
It is used to control how process mmap the file.  
The \fIexec\fR property apply on executable files (binary or scripts).
It take effect when the process is launched and the property
will be assigned as the context of the running process.
Whereas the \fItransmute\fR flag only affects directories and
ensures that all files created beneath it have their label set to
the label of the directory on which the transmute bit is set.

This process needs to be launched with \fBCAP_MAC_ADMIN\fR capabilities
in order to change any of the contexts.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -L, --dereference

Use this option to process the target of the symbolic links instead of the
symbolic links themselves.

.TP
.B -a, --access \fRlabel

When setting, the label must be set and its value must be a valid
Smack label.

This context is used to confine the access modes, which are defined by the
set \fBrwaxtl\fR, which refer to read, write, append, execute, transmute 
and lock.
The exec here is not to be confused with the \fB\-e\fR option listed below.
This access mode "exec" specifies restrictions on who is allowed
to launch this process. 
A common rule for this might look like \fB(launcher application rx)\fR
where the \fB\-\-access\fR label is set to \fBapplication\fR.
This would ensure that the process with context \fBlauncher\fR would be able
to read and execute the binary from the \fBapplication\fR context.

This label is stored in the \fBsecurity.SMACK64\fR extended attribute.

.TP
.B -A, --drop-access

Drop the \fIaccess\fR property attached to the file.

After that operation, the \fIaccess\fR property for the file
will be the default access property set during the file system
mounting or \fB_\fR if none.

.TP
.B -e, --exec \fRlabel

When setting, the label must be set and its value must be a valid
Smack label.

If this file is an application binary, this flag defines the context that
it will be launched in.

This label is stored in the \fBsecurity.SMACK64EXEC\fR extended attribute.

.TP
.B -E, --drop-exec

Drop the \fIexec\fR property attached to the file.

.TP
.B -m, --mmap \fRlabel

When setting, the label must be set and its value must be a valid
Smack label.

A file with the mmap attribute set can only be mapped by processes with
access to all of the labels that a process with the mmap label would have
access to.

This label is stored in the \fBsecurity.SMACK64MMAP\fR extended attribute.

.TP
.B -M, --drop-mmap

Drop the \fImmap\fR property attached to the file.

.TP
.B -t, --transmute

When used this will set the transmute flag of a directory to True.
This will mean that all files and directories created under it will have
the same label as the directory.
By default all files created by a process are created with the same context
label as the process.
Transmute provides a very useful feature for sharing access to resources.
The common example would be a Docs directory where all documents created by
word processors and text editors can be stored.
Each of the text editors can open the files and edit them in a shared fashion,
while still ensuring that the config files of the editor remain protected.

This label is stored in the \fBsecurity.SMACK64TRANSMUTE\fR extended attribute.

.TP
.B -T, --drop-transmute

Drop the \fItransmute\fR property attached to the file.

.TP
.B -D, --drop

Use this option to instruct chsmack to remove all attributes that aren't set by other flags.
For example chsmack -a Foo -D would drop all attributes except security.SMACK64.

If no property is specified, it means that all the properties will
be removed.

.TP
.B -r, --recursive

Use this option to list or modify files in subdirectories.
It follows symbolic links only if in the command line.

.SH OBSOLETE OPTIONS

.TP
.B -d, --remove

\fBThis option is obsolete, use -D, -A, -M -E, -T instead.\fR

Use this option to remove the smack properties of the files.
You specify the properties to remove using options \fB-a\fR, \fB-e\fR,
\fB-m\fR or \fB-t\fR (or their long version) without putting their label
value.
If no property is specified, it means that all the properties will
be removed.

.SH RETURN VALUE

The current values for the labels will be printed to stdout on success.

.SH EXIT STATUS

A successful call will return 0, where as a non zero value will be
returned on error.

.SH "SMACK LABELS"

Smack labels are ASCII character strings, of 1 to 255 characters in
length. Single character labels using special characters, that being anything
other than a letter or digit, are reserved for use by the Smack development
team. Smack labels are unstructured, case sensitive, and the only operation
ever performed on them is comparison for equality. Smack labels cannot
contain unprintable characters, the '\fB/\fR' (slash), the '\fB\\\fR'
(backslash), the "\fB'\fR" (quote) and '\fB"\fR' (double-quote) characters.
Smack labels cannot begin with a '-'. This is reserved for special options.

There are some predefined labels:

-	\fB_\fR 	Pronounced "floor", a single underscore character.

-	\fB^\fR 	Pronounced "hat", a single circumflex character.

-	\fB*\fR 	Pronounced "star", a single asterisk character.

-	\fB?\fR 	Pronounced "huh", a single question mark character.

-	\fB@\fR 	Pronounced "web", a single at sign character.

.SH EXAMPLES

Here are some examples that may be useful.

.EX
chsmack -aUser -D file1 file2
.EE

This command set the Smack \fIaccess\fR property to \fIUser\fR and
drop any other Smack properties for the files \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR.

.EX
chsmack -E -a Nobody file3
.EE

This command set the Smack \fIaccess\fR property to \fINobody\fR and
drops the \fIexec\fR property for the file \fIfile3\fR.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

smackcipso(8), smackctl(8), smackload(8)

