'\" t
.\" This file is part of libsmack
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" version 2.1 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH "SMACKCIPSO" "8" "07/05/2012" "smack-utils 1\&.0"
.SH NAME
smackcipso \- Load Smack cipso rules into the kernel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smackcipso
.I <path>
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smackcipso
is a tool that can be used to load cipso rules into the kernel.  The general use of
.B smackcipso
is to read a set of rules from a file, but it also supports the convenience of loading rules from the command line. This process needs to be started with CAP_MAC_ADMIN capability otherwise it will not have sufficient permission to make the changes.  Launching
.B smackcipso
without a path name will allow you to enter rules on the command line, these take the format "%s%4d%4d[%4d]...\\n"
.B (subject lvl cnt c1 c2 ...)
with ^D terminating the session and writing the rules to the kernel.
.IP path
The path to the file from which to read the rules
.SH EXIT STATUS
On success
.B smackload
returns 0 and 1 on failure.
