'\" t
.\" This file is part of libsmack
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" version 2.1 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH "SMACKLOAD" "8" "03/05/2012" "smack-utils 1\&.0"
.SH NAME
smackload \- Load and unload Smack rules from the kernel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smackload [\-c]
.I <path>
 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smackload
is a tool that can be used to load Smack rules into the kernel or to remove rules that have already been loaded.  The general use of
.B smackload
is to read a set of rules from a file, but it also supports the convenience of loading rules from the command line. This process needs to be started with CAP_MAC_ADMIN capability otherwise it will not have sufficient permission to make the changes.  Launching
.B smackload
without a path name will allow you to enter rules on the command line, these take the format "%s %s %s\\n"
.B (subject object access_type)
with ^D terminating the session and writing the rules to the kernel. The
.B access_type
refers to the access modes that are from the set "rwaxt", which refer to read, write, append, execute and transmute access respectively
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-c
Clear the specified rules from the kernel
.IP path
The path to the file from which to read the rules

.SH EXIT STATUS
On success
.B smackload
returns 0 and 1 on failure.
