'\" t
.\" This file is part of libsmack
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
.\" version 2.1 as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA
.\" 02110-1301 USA
.\"
.TH "SMACKCTL" "8" "03/05/2012" "smack-utils 1\&.0"
.SH NAME
smackctl \- Load and unload the system Smack rules files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smackctl ACTION

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B smackctl
is a program to load and unload the Smack context configurations.  It is generally called by an init process on startup and shutdown of the system when it is needed to change the Smack rules in the kernel.  The Smack system configuration files are stored in configuration directories (see FILES below).

.B smackctl
can also be used to check the status of the Smack system, specifically if smackfs filesystem is mounted.

.SH ACTIONS

.B
.IP apply
Apply all the rules found in the configuration directories (/etc/smack/accesses.d and /etc/smack/cipso.d)

.B
.IP clear
Remove all system rules from the kernel.

.B
.IP status
Show the status of the Smack system, specifically if smackfs filesystem is mounted and where.

.B
.IP test
Test the status of the Smack system, specifically if smackfs filesystem is mounted and exit appropriately without prompting norder to indicate to scripts whether Smack is active or not.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP -h --help
Print a short help and exit immediately.

.IP -v --version
Print the version and exit immediately.

.SH EXIT STATUS

Except for action
.B test
, on success
.B smackctl
returns 0 and 1 on failure.

If action is
.B test
the exit value 0 indicates that the Smack system is active, otherwise, if Smack system is not detected active, the exit value is 2 (see NOTE).

.SH FILES
/smack or /sys/fs/smackfs
.br
/etc/smack/acceses.d
.br
/etc/smack/cipso.d

.SH NOTE

The value 2 is used in exiting of test to be distinguished from normal error cases. Versions of smackctl anterior to version 1.3.2 would not recognizes the action test and thus will exit with status 1 indicating a wrong action.
